# The-Virtual-Parkinsonian-Patient
Parkinson’s disease​ is ​characterized by the degeneration of dopamine-producing nigrostriatal neurons and the accumulation of alpha-synuclein. This primarily results in motor impairments. However, recent findings highlight that symptoms extend to ​the cognitive and behavioural ​domains, with neuroimaging revealing early changes beyond motor areas. Understanding how the local degeneration of dopaminergic neurons affects the whole brain dynamics remains an open question.
 This study investigates the influence of ​the pharmacological nigrostriatal dopaminergic stimulation on the entire brain by analyzing EEG and deep electrodes, ​placed near the subthalamic nuclei, from 10 Parkinsonian patients, ​before (OFF) and after (ON) L-Dopa administration. ​We characterize brain dynamics​ in terms of the spatio-temporal spreading of aperiodic bursts over the large scale.
 
We ​t​hen simulate the L-Dopa effects using ​a novel neural-mass model, ​w​hich includes the local dopamine concentration​ as variable​s​, a​nd where connections used to coupled the equations, derived from the empirical tractographies, are labelled as either excitatory, inhibitory, or dopaminergic. Whole-brain dynamics  ​i​s simulated​ f​​​or different dopaminergic tones, generating numerical predictions of ​the expected dynamics from EEG and deep electrode data. 
Then, in a Bayesian set-up, ​ we invert the model and infer the most likely dopaminergic tone from empirical data, correctly identifying higher ​D​opaminergic tone in the ON-state, and a lower dopaminergic tones​ in the OFF-state for all patients. ​W​In conclusion, we successfully ​i​nfer the dopaminergic tone by integrating anatomical and dynamic background knowledge into physiological predictions​, using solid ground-truth to validate our findings.


